Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.Data structure is a particular way of organizing and storing data in a computer so that it can be accessed and modified
efficiently. Data structure is a collection of data values, the relationships among them, and the functions or operations
 that can be applied to the data.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. General operations performed on a data structure are -
- Insertion, to add items to it
- Deletion, to remove items from it
- Modification, to modify items
- Searching, to search for a particular item
- Sorting, to sort the items in a required order.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. The name of areas are:
· Compiler Design,
· Operating System,
· Database Management System,
· Statistical analysis package,
· Numerical Analysis,
· Graphics,
· Artificial Intelligence,
· Simulation

what is an Array?
A. An array, in the context of Java, is a dynamically-created object that serves as a container to hold constant number
of values of the same type. By declaring an array, memory space is allocated for values of a particular type

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.Array is a fixed size data structure where as in Arraylist we can modify length by appending elements afterwards.
For array we have to mention size earlier because fixed memory has to be allocated before but in Arraylist mentioning size is not fixed.
One more difference is that Arraylist cannot hold primitive datatypes as it can hold only objects referring to datatype.

what is LinkedList?
A.Linked List are linear data structures where the elements are not stored in contiguous locations and every element is a separate
object with a data part and address part. The elements are linked using pointers and addresses. Each element is known as a node.


How is an Array different from Linked List?
A. an array requires less memory than a linked list for storing the same number of elements.
An array is the data structure that contains a collection of similar type data elements whereas the Linked list is considered as non-primitive
data structure contains a collection of unordered linked elements known as nodes.
In the array the elements belong to indexes,  In a linked list though, you have to start from the head and work your way through until you get the element you are looking for.
In an array, memory is assigned during compile time while in a Linked list it is allocated during execution or runtime.
Arrays are of fixed size. In contrast, Linked lists are dynamic and flexible and can expand and contract its size.
Operations like insertion and deletion in arrays consume a lot of time. On the other hand, the performance of these operations in Linked lists is fast.
Elements are stored consecutively in arrays whereas it is stored randomly in Linked lists

what is queue?
A.Queues typically, but do not necessarily, order elements in a FIFO (first-in-first-out) manner. Among the exceptions are priority queues, which order elements
according to a supplied comparator, or the elements' natural ordering, and LIFO queues (or stacks) which order the elements LIFO (last-in-first-out).

what is stack?
A.It is a collection that is based on the last in first out (LIFO) principle. On Creation, a stack is empty. It extends
Vector class with five methods that allow a vector to be treated as a stack.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first element is processed
first and the newest element is processed last. ... LIFO is an abbreviation for Last in, first out is same as fist in, last out (FILO).

what is the order of complexity?
A.This means that it is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the input, and the algorithm finishes between two factors of it.
Generally, the smaller the order of complexity of the program's underlying algorithm, the faster it will run and the better it will scale
as the input gets larger.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.Linear search is also known as sequential search. If there are n elements in the array then, in the best case key is found in 1 comparison.
While in the worst case it takes n comparison. Best case occurs when the key is at first position of the array.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.The worst case to search an element from an array is selection search.

what is tree in data structure?
A.n computer science, a binary tree is a tree data structure in which each node has at the most two children, which are
referred to as the left child and the right child.

what is graph in data structure?
A.A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges. The nodes are sometimes also referred to as vertices
and the edges are lines or arcs that connect any two nodes in the graph.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.There are several differences between HashMap and Hashtable in Java:
  Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications, as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than synchronized ones.
  Hashtable does not allow null keys or values.  HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.
  One of HashMap's subclasses is LinkedHashMap, so in the event that you'd want predictable iteration order
  (which is insertion order by default), you could easily swap out the HashMap for a LinkedHashMap. This wouldn't be as
  easy if you were using Hashtable.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A.The major data structures used are as follows:
  · RDBMS – Array (i.e. Array of structures)
  · Network data model – Graph
  · Hierarchical data model – Trees

How HashMap works in java?
A.HashMap in Java works on hashing principle. ... When we call put method, hashcode() method of the key object is called
so that hash function of the map can find a bucket location to store value object, which is actually an index of the internal
array, known as the table.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


